Home
####

:slug: index
:lang: en

.. raw:: html
  :file: ../images/header.svg

*For years, the agricultural genetic material of the world has been
eroding, mainly due to the actions of large producers and the necessary
patents to sell agricultural commodities.*

*The self-named seed keepers have declared themselves guardians of this
genetic diversity.*

.. image:: {static}/images/agencies/aplusa.png
  :alt: A+A agency logo
  :width: 150
  :class: logo

.. image:: {static}/images/agencies/naco.png
  :alt: Naço agency logo
  :width: 300
  :class: logo

The seed keepers
================

.. image:: {static}/images/children.jpg
  :alt: Children with seed keepers

Seedkeepers are entrusted with the task of preserving the seeds, their
diversity and the knowledge surrounding them. As seed lifespan does not
exceed two to ten years, they cultivate them in order to create a living
preservation chain of the seed varieties.

Their occupation comes from a precolombian tradition, where they had a
central role in the communities, building an agro-eco-systemic model.

The seed keepers, or Arariguas, do not longer exist as they used to in
the modern society. But some men and women like the Tipon community are
trying to resurrect this tradition, and the culture of seed diversity
caring.

/// VIDEO ///

The genetical diversity of seeds belongs in the number of different
varieties cultivated and consumed. Today only a few varieties of each
specie are used, but this has not always been the case.

Before every place had its endemic plants who were grown and maintained.
But during the last decades, the agricultural system has changed and
turned itsemf into monoculture. This system favors the most productive
seeds, which are then produced in industrial ways by firms.

The limited number of varieties produced are protected by patents, and
laws that forbid the use of peasant varieties. Due to these
restrictions, the genetic diversity of seeds has been decreasing, and
nowadays many peasant varieties have been extinct or are threatened.

.. image:: {static}/images/woman_field.jpg
  :alt: Woman with a field in the background

Seed preservation is not only taken care by group of people and
communities like the seeds keepers. Global project that cross border are
also in place in Europe with the Svalbard Globale Frøhvelv or in korea
with the `Baekdudaegan National Arboretum`_ Seed Vault Centre.

Those two vaults the are open to any country and aim to protect seed
diversity by freezing them at -20°C. The Korean one even benefits from
an anti atomic bunker in case of global conflict.

We can see see a lot of similarity in this project but they are mean to
an end are in reality very different. While one tries to protect the
seed from extectinction by retiring them from the outside world and
putting them in a vault, the other is just trying to save the seed
diversity by encouraging their natural reproduction and sharing them.

The Arariwakuna project
=======================

.. image:: {static}/images/valley.jpg
  :alt: Arariwakuna valley

The Arariwakuna project started a few years ago in Choquepata. This
project aims to preserve genetic diversity but also the peasant
education, in decline all over the world. Modern men kind live more and
more disconnected from the earth and its essentials needs.

.. image:: {static}/images/crops.jpg
  :alt: Woman and children amongst crops

The project has evolved trhough three differents states. A first one
were Alain and is family were growing vegetable in choquepata and
selling them at their restaurant. A second one where they join a native
family from the region and really integrated the community of tipon. The
space of creation and sharing they created by doing so made them
realised they had to go further.

.. image:: {static}/images/bricks.jpg
  :alt: Woman and soil bricks in a field

Before the pandemic, the arariwakuna’s main source of income came from
their restaurant where one could eat the community’s grown goods. But
with the fall of tourism they had to face not only the lost of income
but also the lose of visibility of their project.

However, during the pandemic while people were struggling to find had
some food as the markets were closed, they lived in abondance eating and
sharing the diversity of products they grown them self.

Those events reenforced their will in going forward with the Arariwakuna
project and they decided to go live in the mountain, and cultivate the
land there, where its is much harder to grow crops but where their ideal
could be pushed at maximum capacity.

.. image:: {static}/images/construction_site.jpg
  :alt: Construction site of a soil bricks building

In 2020 they left the valley with a group of five families in order to
go live in autarcy at the top of the mountain. They came to a land where
there was noting but possibilities and infinite soil.

They made it all with it, from the adobe bricks they use to build their
house to the substrat they worked to grow their plant.

Everything they needed was in the ground.

/// VIDEO ///

Exchanges
=========

.. image:: {static}/images/family_crops.jpg
  :alt: Family taking care of some crops

Two generations ago, seed’s were shared between communities every time
someone was moving from a place to another. Creating a slow but strong
network of seed diversity.

Today, even if this diversity is threatened, modern tool’s such as the
internet and global postal network are allowing exchanges of seeds all
around the world between independent gardeners and farmers.

.. image:: {static}/images/seeds_collection.jpg
  :alt: Collection of several different seeds of various colors

The connection between the architecture Agency NACO and "la Huerta de
Tipon" community began in 2020, when we got aware of the seed diversity
issue. Followed the discovery of the community on the internet, and a
contact.

The community sent us some seeds that we sowed and grown in France. We
obtained more seeds that we needed and have been able to share them with
new people, perpetuating the diffusion.

.. image:: {static}/images/crop_pots.jpg
  :alt: Some crops in little pots

/// VIDEO ///

Anybody anywhere in the world can contribute to these networks and help
to maintain the seed diversity. Here are some of these seed exchange
networks you can easily access, and why not contribute to ?

.. raw:: html
  :file: ../images/communities.svg

These platforms are communities of gardeners and seed keepers, sharing
and swapping peasant seeds.

Another way of contributing to seed caring is to contact the Huerta de
Tipon community, and share seeds with them.

Alain's contact
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. container:: address

  **RULES:** Before sending seeds, send an e-mail detailing your
  parcel.
  
  **MAIL:** arariwakuna.tipon@gmail.com
  
  | **ADDRESS:**
  | Sr. Mario Flórez (Alain Dlugosz)
  | Hostal DEIVICO
  | Av. Pachacuteq Nro. 525 Wanchaq Cusco
  | PERÚ

/// VIDEO ///

The installation
================

.. image:: {static}/images/installation.jpg
  :alt: Architectural drawing of the installation

Biennales exist to show different visions of what the world could be
like, to broaden people’s perspectives to ideas seemingly impossible,
through architectural an urbanist propositions.

The SBAU 2021 taking place in Seoul is no different from its
predecessors in this sense and has itself set the goal of providing a
new vision of what sustainability could be.

.. raw:: html
  :file: ../figures/sustain.html

The first construction built during the creation of the new village was
the greenhouse. It is the heart of the village and the its most
important element. It is a source of life and without it, it would be
almost impossible to reach self-sufficiency.

That is why we inspired ourselves for this artwork, from these
greenhouses, using the same technique and material as the Arariwakuna
community.

/// VIDEO ///

We live in a world disconnected from reality in the sense that we do not
even know what our real needs are.

We are invaded by artificial urges promulgated by a society pushing
towards luxury through consumerism.

By exposing to the SBAU 2021 the Arariwakuna, its projects, its ideals
and the simplicity with which they live, we hope to provoke in the
visitors an impact leading to awareness and willingness towards change.

.. raw:: html
  :file: ../figures/change.html

.. _Baekdudaegan National Arboretum: https://www.bonghwa.go.kr/open.content/en/tourism/national/
